README.md, before:

# MLS Explained

⚠️⚠️ **NEVER USE THIS CODE IN PRODUCTION** ⚠️⚠️

⚠️⚠️ **THIS IS AN INSECURE IMPLEMENTATION** ⚠️⚠️

⚠️⚠️ **ONLY FOR ACADEMIC PURPOSES** ⚠️⚠️


The MLS-Explained project tries to provide insides into the inner workings 
of the [MLS Protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-mls-protocol/) 
[version 7](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-mls-protocol/07/).

![Header Image](header.png)

It contains three pieces of software written in python: 
An implementation of MLS (called libMLS), an implementation of a dirserver 
[based on version 3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-mls-architecture/03/) 
of the [mls architecture rfc](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-mls-architecture/) and a GUI application
which includes a simple "chat protocol" which aims to visualize the inner workings of MLS.

## Status of the implementation

What has been implemented?
- Group creation
- Add Messages
- Update Messages
- Exchange of application messages
- Message packing, passing and processing between remote clients

**➡️ Everything that makes this protocol work for simple chat applications** 


What it is not implemented?
- Application Message Trees
- Signature checking
- Message Encryption
- Mitigation of side channel attacks
- Init messages (these have beed removed in later protocol drafts)
- Remove messages

**➡️ Everything that would make this protocol secure** 

## Target audience

This repository is of interest for those who want to understand how exactly MLS works without being involved in
the development process for ages. It aims to implement all the basic concepts of the protocol while removing everything
that obstructs understanding.

Please take note that this implementation is the result of a two semester project course. Many code comments are still
in German and most likely won't be translated as the project duration has ended as there are a lot of "hacks"
to be found, especially in the gui clients. 

## Building

This project uses the [nix build system](https://nixos.org/nix/). After installation you can build the project by
running `nix-build` in the project root. No other dependencies are needed. `nix-build` also executes all tests as well
as a linter.

After the build process is finished the binaries will be available in the `result` folder.

## Running

The GUI of this project can be run using `./result/infrastructure/bin/mls-chat-client-gui`. You can 
start any number of gui instances to simulate a small communication. 
You'll also need to start the dirserver at `./result/infrastructure/bin/mls-dir-server`.

## Project structure

```
.
├── infrastructure
│   ├── chatclient
│   ├── dirserver
│   └── tests
├── integration_test
└── libMLS
    ├── libMLS
    └── tests

    
```

`libMLS`: Implementation of MLS Protocol Version 7

`infrastructure`: 
- `dirserver`: Implementation of a simple Directory & Auth Server
- `chatclient`: A simple chat client in two versions: A command line interface and a qt-based gui application

`integration_test`: A bash script running multiple cli chat clients verify that basic interaction works

Commit message:

Readme typo fixes and bonus content

README.md, after:

# MLS Explained

⚠️⚠️ **NEVER USE THIS CODE IN PRODUCTION** ⚠️⚠️

⚠️⚠️ **THIS IS AN INSECURE IMPLEMENTATION** ⚠️⚠️

⚠️⚠️ **ONLY FOR ACADEMIC PURPOSES** ⚠️⚠️


The MLS-Explained project tries to provide insight into the inner workings 
of the [mls protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-mls-protocol/) 
[version 7](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-mls-protocol/07/).

![Header Image](header.png)

It contains three pieces of software written in python: 
An implementation of mls (called libMLS), an implementation of a dirserver 
[based on version 3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-mls-architecture/03/) 
of the [mls architecture rfc](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-mls-architecture/) and a GUI application
which includes a simple "chat protocol" which aims to visualize the inner workings of mls.

## Status of the implementation

What has been implemented?
- Group creation
- Add Messages
- Update Messages
- Exchange of application messages
- Message packing, passing and processing between remote clients

**➡️ Everything that makes this protocol work for simple chat applications** 


What it is not implemented?
- Application Message Trees
- Signature checking
- Message encryption
- Mitigation of side channel attacks
- Init messages (these have beed removed in later protocol drafts)
- Remove messages

**➡️ Everything that would make this protocol secure** 

## Target audience

This repository is of interest for those who want to understand how exactly MLS works without being involved in
the development process for ages. It aims to implement all the basic concepts of the protocol while removing everything
that obstructs understanding.

Please take note that this implementation is the result of a two semester project course. Many code comments are still
in German and most likely won't be translated as the project duration has ended. For the same reason a lot of "hacks"
can be found, especially in the gui clients, which we never came around to fix. 

## Building

This project uses the [nix build system](https://nixos.org/nix/). After installation you can build the project by
running `nix-build` in the project root. No other dependencies are needed. `nix-build` also executes all tests as well
as a linter.

After the build process is finished the binaries will be available in the `result` folder.

## Running

The GUI of this project can be run using `./result/infrastructure/bin/mls-chat-client-gui`. You can 
start any number of gui instances to simulate a small communication. 
You'll also need to start the dirserver at `./result/infrastructure/bin/mls-dir-server`.

## Project structure

```
.
├── infrastructure
│   ├── chatclient
│   ├── dirserver
│   └── tests
├── integration_test
└── libMLS
    ├── libMLS
    └── tests

    
```

`libMLS`: Implementation of MLS Protocol Version 7

`infrastructure`: 
- `dirserver`: Implementation of a simple Directory & Auth Server
- `chatclient`: A simple chat client in two versions: A command line interface and a qt-based gui application

`integration_test`: A bash script running multiple cli chat clients verify that basic interaction works

## 🎁Bonus content🎁

Here is a little bonus content, we thought would be too helpful to let it rot in our internal repo: 

A diagram illustrating how different secrets in mls interact:
![mls secret derivations](MLS_Key_Secret_derivations.png)
